"Again I swear!" came the Professor's resonant voice.

Mrs. Harker smiled, positively smiled, as with a sigh of
relief she leaned back and said, "And now one word of warn-
ing, a warning which you must never forget. This time, if it
ever come, may come quickly and unexpectedly, and in such
case you must lose no time in using your opportunity.  At such
a time I myself might be. . .nay! If the time ever come,
shall be, leagued with your enemy against you.

"One more request," she became very solemn as she said
this, "it is not vital and necessary like the other, but I
want you to do one thing for me, if you will."

We all acquiesced, but no one spoke. There was no need
to speak.

"I want you to read the Burial Service." She was inter-
rupted by a deep groan from her husband. Taking his hand in
hers, she held it over her heart, and continued. "You must
read it over me some day. Whatever may be the issue of all
this fearful state of things, it will be a sweet thought to
all or some of us. You, my dearest, will I hope read it, for
then it will be in your voice in my memory forever, come
what may!"

"But oh, my dear one," he pleaded, "death is afar off
from you."

"Nay," she said, holding up a warning hand. "I am
deeper in death at this moment than if the weight of an
earthly grave lay heavy upon me!"

"Oh, my wife, must I read it?" he said, before he began.

"It would comfort me, my husband!" was all she said,
and he began to read when she had got the book ready.

How can I, how could anyone, tell of that strange scene,
its solemnity, its gloom, its sadness, its horror, and withal,
its sweetness. Even a sceptic, who can see nothing but a
travesty of bitter truth in anything holy or emotional, would
have been melted to the heart had he seen that little group
of loving and devoted friends kneeling round that stricken
and sorrowing lady. Or heard the tender passion of her hus-
band's voice, as in tones so broken and emotional that often
he had to pause, he read the simple and beautiful service
from the Burial of the Dead. I cannot go on. . .
words. . .and v-voices. . .f-fail m-me!

She was right in her instinct. Strange as it was,
bizarre as it may hereafter seem even to us who felt its
potent influence at the time, it comforted us much. And the
silence, which showed Mrs. Harker's coming relapse from her
freedom of soul, did not seem so full of despair to any of
us as we had dreaded.





JONATHAN HARKER'S JOURNAL


15 October, Varna.--We left Charing Cross on the morn-
ing of the 12th, got to Paris the same night, and took the
places secured for us in the Orient Express. We traveled
night and day, arriving here at about five o'clock. Lord
Godalming went to the Consulate to see if any telegram had
arrived for him, whilst the rest of us came on to this hotel,
"the Odessus." The journey may have had incidents. I was,
however, too eager to get on, to care for them. Until the
Czarina Catherine comes into port there will be no interest
for me in anything in the wide world. Thank God! Mina is
well, and looks to be getting stronger. Her color is coming
back. She sleeps a great deal. Throughout the journey she
slept nearly all the time. Before sunrise and sunset, how-
ever, she is very wakeful and alert. And it has become a
habit for Van Helsing to hypnotize her at such times. At
first, some effort was needed, and he had to make many passes.
But now, she seems to yield at once, as if by habit, and
scarcely any action is needed. He seems to have power at
these particular moments to simply will, and her thoughts
obey him. He always asks her what she can see and hear.

She answers to the first, "Nothing, all is dark."

And to the second, "I can hear the waves lapping against
the ship, and the water rushing by. Canvas and cordage strain
and masts and yards creak. The wind is high. . .I can
hear it in the shrouds, and the bow throws back the foam."

It is evident that the Czarina Catherine is still at
sea, hastening on her way to Varna. Lord Godalming has just
returned. He had four telegrams, one each day since we start-
ed, and all to the same effect. That the Czarina Catherine had
not been reported to Lloyd's from anywhere. He had arranged
before leaving London that his agent should send him every
day a telegram saying if the ship had been reported. He was
to have a message even if she were not reported, so that he
might be sure that there was a watch being kept at the other
end of the wire.

We had dinner and went to bed early. Tomorrow we are
to see the Vice Consul, and to arrange, if we can, about get-
ting on board the ship as soon as she arrives. Van Helsing
says that our chance will be to get on the boat between sun-
rise and sunset. The Count, even if he takes the form of a
bat, cannot cross the running water of his own volition, and
so cannot leave the ship. As he dare not change to man's
form without suspicion, which he evidently wishes to avoid,
he must remain in the box. If, then, we can come on board
after sunrise, he is at our mercy, for we can open the box
and make sure of him, as we did of poor Lucy, before he
wakes. What mercy he shall get from us all will not count
for much. We think that we shall not have much trouble with
officials or the seamen. Thank God! This is the country
where bribery can do anything, and we are well supplied with
money. We have only to make sure that the ship cannot come
into port between sunset and sunrise without our being
warned, and we shall be safe. Judge Moneybag will settle this
case, I think!


16 October.--Mina's report still the same. Lapping
waves and rushing water, darkness and favoring winds. We are
evidently in good time, and when we hear of the Czarina Cat-
herine we shall be ready. As she must pass the Dardanelles
we are sure to have some report.


17 October.--Everything is pretty well fixed now, I
think, to welcome the Count on his return from his tour. Go-
dalming told the shippers that he fancied that the box sent
aboard might contain something stolen from a friend of his,
and got a half consent that he might open it at his own risk.
The owner gave him a paper telling the Captain to give him
every facility in doing whatever he chose on board the ship,
and also a similar authorization to his agent at Varna. We
have seen the agent, who was much impressed with Godalming's
kindly manner to him, and we are all satisfied that whatever
he can do to aid our wishes will be done.

We have already arranged what to do in case we get the
box open. If the Count is there, Van Helsing and Seward
will cut off his head at once and drive a stake through his
heart. Morris and Godalming and I shall prevent interfer-
ence, even if we have to use the arms which we shall have
ready. The Professor says that if we can so treat the
Count's body, it will soon after fall into dust. In such
case there would be no evidence against us, in case any
suspicion of murder were aroused. But even if it were not,
we should stand or fall by our act, and perhaps some day
this very script may be evidence to come between some of us
and a rope. For myself, I should take the chance only too
thankfully if it were to come. We mean to leave no stone
unturned to carry out our intent. We have arranged with
certain officials that the instant the Czarina Catherine is
seen, we are to be informed by a special messenger.


24 October.--A whole week of waiting. Daily telegrams
to Godalming, but only the same story. "Not yet reported."
Mina's morning and evening hypnotic answer is unvaried. Lap-
ping waves, rushing water, and creaking masts.




TELEGRAM, OCTOBER 24TH
RUFUS SMITH, LLOYD'S, LONDON, TO LORD GODALMING, CARE OF

H. B. M. VICE CONSUL, VARNA

"Czarina Catherine reported this morning from Dardanelles."

DR. SEWARD'S DIARY


25 October.--How I miss my phonograph! To write a
diary with a pen is irksome to me! But Van Helsing says I
must. We were all wild with excitement yesterday when Godal-
ming got his telegram from Lloyd's. I know now what men feel
in battle when the call to action is heard. Mrs. Harker, alone
of our party, did not show any signs of emotion.  After all, it
is not strange that she did not, for we took special care not
to let her know anything about it, and we all tried not to
show any excitement when we were in her presence. In old days
she would, I am sure, have noticed, no matter how we might
have tried to conceal it. But in this way she is greatly
changed during the past three weeks. The lethargy grows upon
her, and though she seems strong and well, and is getting
back some of her color, Van Helsing and I are not satisfied.
We talk of her often. We have not, however, said a word to
the others. It would break poor Harker's heart, certainly
his nerve, if he knew that we had even a suspicion on the
subject. Van Helsing examines, he tells me, her teeth very
carefully, whilst she is in the hypnotic condition, for he
says that so long as they do not begin to sharpen there is
no active danger of a change in her. If this change should
come, it would be necessary to take steps! We both know what
those steps would have to be, though we do not mention our
thoughts to each other. We should neither of us shrink from
the task, awful though it be to contemplate. "Euthanasia" is
an excellent and a comforting word! I am grateful to whoever
invented it.

It is only about 24 hours' sail from the Dardanelles to
here, at the rate the Czarina Catherine has come from London.
She should therefore arrive some time in the morning, but as
she cannot possibly get in before noon, we are all about to
retire early. We shall get up at one o'clock, so as to be
ready.


25 October, Noon.--No news yet of the ship's arrival.
Mrs. Harker's hypnotic report this morning was the same as
usual, so it is possible that we may get news at any moment.
We men are all in a fever of excitement, except Harker, who
is calm. His hands are cold as ice, and an hour ago I found
him whetting the edge of the great Ghoorka knife which he
now always carries with him. It will be a bad lookout for the
Count if the edge of that "Kukri" ever touches his throat,
driven by that stern, ice-cold hand!

Van Helsing and I were a little alarmed about Mrs.
Harker today. About noon she got into a sort of lethargy
which we did not like. Although we kept silence to the
others, we were neither of us happy about it. She had been
restless all the morning, so that we were at first glad to
know that she was sleeping. When, however, her husband
mentioned casually that she was sleeping so soundly that he
could not wake her, we went to her room to see for ourselves.
She was breathing naturally and looked so well and peaceful
that we agreed that the sleep was better for her than any-
thing else. Poor girl, she has so much to forget that it is
no wonder that sleep, if it brings oblivion to her, does her
good.


Later.--Our opinion was justified, for when after a
refreshing sleep of some hours she woke up, she seemed
brighter and better than she had been for days. At sunset
she made the usual hypnotic report. Wherever he may be in
the Black Sea, the Count is hurrying to his destination. To
his doom, I trust!



26 October.--Another day and no tidings of the Czarina
Catherine. She ought to be here by now. That she is still
journeying somewhere is apparent, for Mrs. Harker's hypnotic
report at sunrise was still the same. It is possible that
the vessel may be lying by, at times, for fog. Some of the
steamers which came in last evening reported patches of fog
both to north and south of the port. We must continue our
watching, as the ship may now be signalled any moment.


27 October, Noon.--Most strange. No news yet of the
ship we wait for. Mrs. Harker reported last night and this
morning as usual. "Lapping waves and rushing water," though
she added that "the waves were very faint." The telegrams
from London have been the same, "no further report." Van
Helsing is terribly anxious, and told me just now that he
fears the Count is escaping us.

He added significantly, "I did not like that lethargy
of Madam Mina's. Souls and memories can do strange things
during trance." I was about to as k him more, but Harker
just then came in, and he held up a warning hand. We must
try tonight at sunset to make her speak more fully when in
her hypnotic state.

28 October.--Telegram. Rufus Smith, London, to Lord
Godalming, care H. B. M. Vice Consul, Varna

"Czarina Catherine reported entering Galatz at one
o'clock today."




DR. SEWARD'S DIARY


28 October.--When the telegram came announcing the
arrival in Galatz I do not think it was such a shock to any
of us as might have been expected. True, we did not know
whence, or how, or when, the bolt would come. But I think we
all expected that something strange would happen. The day of
arrival at Varna made us individually satisfied that things
would not be just as we had expected. We only waited to learn
where the change would occur. None the less, however, it was
a surprise. I suppose that nature works on such a hopeful
basis that we believe against ourselves that things will be
as they ought to be, not as we should know that they will be.
Transcendentalism is a beacon to the angels, even if it be a
will-o'-the-wisp to man. Van Helsing raised his hand over
his head for a moment, as though in remonstrance with the
Almighty. But he said not a word, and in a few seconds stood
up with his face sternly set.

Lord Godalming grew very pale, and sat breathing heav-
ily. I was myself half stunned and looked in wonder at one
after another. Quincey Morris tightened his belt with that
quick movement which I knew so well. In our old wandering
days it meant "action." Mrs. Harker grew ghastly white, so
that the scar on her forehead seemed to burn, but she folded
her hands meekly and looked up in prayer. Harker smiled,
actually smiled, the dark, bitter smile of one who is without
hope, but at the same time his action belied his words, for
his hands instinctively sought the hilt of the great Kukri
knife and rested there.

"When does the next train start for Galatz?" said Van
Helsing to us generally.

"At 6:30 tomorrow morning!" We all started, for the
answer came from Mrs. Harker.

"How on earth do you know?" said Art.

"You forget, or perhaps you do not know, though Jona-
than does and so does Dr. Van Helsing, that I am the train
fiend. At home in Exeter I always used to make up the time
tables, so as to be helpful to my husband. I found it so
useful sometimes, that I always make a study of the time
tables now. I knew that if anything were to take us to
Castle Dracula we should go by Galatz, or at any rate
through Bucharest, so I learned the times very carefully.
Unhappily there are not many to learn, as the only train
tomorrow leaves as I say."

"Wonderful woman!" murmured the Professor.

"Can't we get a special?" asked Lord Godalming.

Van Helsing shook his head, "I fear not. This land is
very different from yours or mine. Even if we did have a
special, it would probably not arrive as soon as our regular
train. Moreover, we have something to prepare. We must think.
Now let us organize. You, friend Arthur, go to the train and
get the tickets and arrange that all be ready for us to go
in the morning. Do you, friend Jonathan, go to the agent of
the ship and get from him letters to the agent in Galatz,
with authority to make a search of the ship just as it was
here. Quincey Morris, you see the Vice Consul, and get his
aid with his fellow in Galatz and all he can do to make our
way smooth, so that no times be lost when over the Danube.
John will stay with Madam Mina and me, and we shall consult.
For so if time be long you may be delayed. And it will not
matter when the sun set, since I am here with Madam to make
report."

"And I," said Mrs. Harker brightly, and more like her
old self than she had been for many a long day, "shall try
to be of use in all ways, and shall think and write for you
as I used to do. Something is shifting from me in some
strange way, and I feel freer than I have been of late!"

The three younger men looked happier at the moment as
they seemed to realize the significance of her words. But
Van Helsing and I, turning to each other, met each a grave
and troubled glance. We said nothing at the time, however.

When the three men had gone out to their tasks Van Hel-
sing asked Mrs. Harker to look up the copy of the diaries and
find him the part of Harker's journal at the Castle. She went
away to get it.

When the door was shut upon her he said to me, "We
mean the same! Speak out!"

"Here is some change. It is a hope that makes me sick,
for it may deceive us."

"Quite so. Do you know why I asked her to get the
manuscript?"

"No!" said I, "unless it was to get an opportunity of
seeing me alone."

"You are in part right, friend John, but only in part.
I want to tell you something. And oh, my friend, I am
taking a great, a terrible, risk. But I believe it is right.
In the moment when Madam Mina said those words that arrest
both our understanding, an inspiration came to me. In the
trance of three days ago the Count sent her his spirit to
read her mind. Or more like he took her to see him in his
earth box in the ship with water rushing, just as it go free
at rise and set of sun. He learn then that we are here, for
she have more to tell in her open life with eyes to see ears
to hear than he, shut as he is, in his coffin box. Now he
make his most effort to escape us.  At present he want her not.

"He is sure with his so great knowledge that she will
come at his call. But he cut her off, take her, as he can
do, out of his own power, that so she come not to him. Ah!
There I have hope that our man brains that have been of man
so long and that have not lost the grace of God, will come
higher than his child-brain that lie in his tomb for centur-
ies, that grow not yet to our stature, and that do only work
selfish and therefore small. Here comes Madam Mina. Not a
word to her of her trance! She knows it not, and it would
overwhelm her and make despair just when we want all her
hope, all her courage, when most we want all her great brain
which is trained like man's brain, but is of sweet woman and
have a special power which the Count give her, and which he
may not take away altogether, though he think not so. Hush!
Let me speak, and you shall learn. Oh, John, my friend, we
are in awful straits. I fear, as I never feared before. We
can only trust the good God. Silence! Here she comes!"

I thought that the Professor was going to break down
and have hysterics, just as he had when Lucy died, but with a
great effort he controlled himself and was at perfect
nervous poise when Mrs. Harker tripped into the room, bright
and happy looking and, in the doing of work, seemingly for-
getful of her misery. As she came in, she handed a number of
sheets of typewriting to Van Helsing. He looked over them
gravely, his face brightening up as he read.

Then holding the pages between his finger and thumb he
said, "Friend John, to you with so much experience already,
and you too, dear Madam Mina, that are young, here is a
lesson. Do not fear ever to think. A half thought has been
buzzing often in my brain, but I fear to let him loose his
wings. Here now, with more knowledge, I go back to where
that half thought come from and I find that he be no half
thought at all. That be a whole thought, though so young that
he is not yet strong to use his little wings. Nay, like the
`Ugly Duck' of my friend Hans Andersen, he be no duck thought
at all, but a big swan thought that sail nobly on big wings,
when the time come for him to try them. See I read here what
Jonathan have written.

"That other of his race who, in a later age, again and
again, brought his forces over The Great River into Turkey
Land, who when he was beaten back, came again, and again,
and again, though he had to come alone from the bloody field
where his troops were being slaughtered, since he knew that
he alone could ultimately triumph.

"What does this tell us? Not much? No! The Count's
child thought see nothing, therefore he speak so free. Your
man thought see nothing. My man thought see nothing, till
just now. No! But there comes another word from some one
who speak without thought because she, too, know not what it
mean, what it might mean. Just as there are elements which
rest, yet when in nature's course they move on their way and
they touch, the pouf! And there comes a flash of light,
heaven wide, that blind and kill and destroy some. But that
show up all earth below for leagues and leagues. Is it not
so? Well, I shall explain. To begin, hav e you ever study
the philosophy of crime? `Yes' and `No.' You, John, yes,
for it is a study of insanity. You, no, Madam Mina, for
crime touch you not, not but once. Still, your mind works
true, and argues not a particulari ad universale. There is
this peculiarity in criminals. It is so constant, in all
countries and at all times, that even police, who know not
much from philosophy, come to know it empirically, that it
is. That is to be empiric. The criminal always work at one
crime, that is the true criminal who seems predestinate to
crime, and who will of none other. This criminal has not full
man brain. He is clever and cunning and resourceful, but he
be not of man stature as to brain. He be of child brain in
much. Now this criminal of ours is pre-destinate to crime
also. He, too, have child brain, and it is of the child to
do what he have done. The little bird, the little fish, the
little animal learn not by principle, but empirically. And
when he learn to do, then there is to him the ground to start
from to do more. `Dos pou sto,' said Archimedes. `Give me
a fulcrum, and I shall move the world!' To do once, is the
fulcrum whereby child brain become man brain. And until he
have the purpose to do more, he continue to do the same again
every time, just as he have done before! Oh, my dear, I see
that your eyes are opened, and that to you the lightning
flash show all the leagues, "for Mrs. Harker began to clap her
hands and her eyes sparkled.

He went on, "Now you shall speak. Tell us two dry men
of science what you see with those so bright eyes." He took
her hand and held it whilst he spoke. His finger and thumb
closed on her pulse, as I thought instinctively and uncon-
sciously, as she spoke.

"The Count is a criminal and of criminal type. Nordau
and Lombroso would so classify him, and qua criminal he is
of an imperfectly formed mind. Thus, in a difficulty he has
to seek resource in habit. His past is a clue, and the one
page of it that we know, and that from his own lips, tells
that once before, when in what Mr. Morris would call a`tight
place,' he went back to his own country from the land he had
tried to invade, and thence, without losing purpose, prepared
himself for a new effort. He came again better equipped for
his work, and won. So he came to London to invade a new land.
He was beaten, and when all hope of success was lost, and his
existence in danger, he fled back over the sea to his home.
Just as formerly he had fled back over the Danube from
Turkey Land."

"Good, good! Oh, you so clever lady!" said Van Helsing,
enthusiastically, as he stooped and kissed her hand.  A moment
later he said to me, as calmly as though we had been having
a sick room consultation, "Seventy-two only, and in all this
excitement. I have hope."

Turning to her again, he said with keen expectation,
"But go on. Go on! There is more to tell if you will. Be
not afraid. John and I know. I do in any case, and shall
tell you if you are right. Speak, without fear!"

"I will try to. But you will forgive me if I seem too
egotistical."

"Nay! Fear not, you must be egotist, for it is of you
that we think."

"Then, as he is criminal he is selfish. And as his
intellect is small and his action is based on selfishness, he
confines himself to one purpose. That purpose is remorseless.
As he fled back over the Danube, leaving his forces to be cut
to pieces, so now he is intent on being safe, careless of all.
So his own selfishness frees my soul somewhat from the terr-
ible power which he acquired over me on that dreadful night.
I felt it! Oh, I felt it! Thank God, for His great mercy!
My soul is freer than it has been since that awful hour. And
all that haunts me is a fear lest in some trance or dream he
may have used my knowledge for his ends."

The Professor stood up, "He has so used your mind, and
by it he has left us here in Varna, whilst the ship that
carried him rushed through enveloping fog up to Galatz,
where, doubtless, he had made preparation for escaping from
us. But his child mind only saw so far. And it may be that
as ever is in God's Providence, the very thing that the evil
doer most reckoned on for his selfish good, turns out to be
his chiefest harm. The hunter is taken in his own snare, as
the great Psalmist says. For now that he think he is free
from every trace of us all, and that he has escaped us with
so many hours to him, then his selfish child brain will
whisper him to sleep. He think, too, that as he cut himself
off from knowing your mind, there can be no knowledge of him
to you. There is where he fail! That terrible baptism of
blood which he give you makes you free to go to him in
spirit, as you have as yet done in your times of freedom,
when the sun rise and set. At such times you go by my voli-
tion and not by his. And this power to good of you and
others, you have won from your suffering at his hands. This
is now all more precious that he know it not, and to guard
himself have even cut himself off from his knowledge of our
where. We, however, are not selfish, and we believe that God
is with us through all this blackness, and these many dark
hours. We shall follow him, and we shall not flinch. Even if
we peril ourselves that we become like him. Friend John,
this has been a great hour, and it have done much to advance
us on our way. You must be scribe and write him all down, so
that when the others return from their work you can give it
to them, then they shall know as we do."

And so I have written it whilst we wait their return,
and Mrs. Harker has written with the typewriter all since
she brought the MS to us.





CHAPTER 26


DR. SEWARD'S DIARY


29 October.--This is written in the train from Varna to
Galatz. Last night we all assembled a little before the
time of sunset. Each of us had done his work as well as he
could, so far as thought, and endeavor, and opportunity go,
we are prepared for the whole of our journey, and for our
work when we get to Galatz. When the usual time came round
Mrs. Harker prepared herself for her hypnotic effort, and
after a longer and more serious effort on the part of Van
Helsing than has been usually necessary, she sank into the
trance. Usually she speaks on a hint, but this time the
Professor had to ask her questions, and to ask them pretty
resolutely, before we could learn anything. At last her
answer came.

"I can see nothing. We are still. There are no waves
lapping, but only a steady swirl of water softly running
against the hawser. I can hear men's voices calling, near
and far, and the roll and creak of oars in the rowlocks. A
gun is fired somewhere, the echo of it seems far away. There
is tramping of feet overhead, and ropes and chains are drag-
ged along. What is this? There is a gleam of light. I can
feel the air blowing upon me."

Here she stopped. She had risen, as if impulsively,
from where she lay on the sofa, and raised both her hands,
palms upwards, as if lifting a weight. Van Helsing and I
looked at each other with understanding. Quincey raised his
eyebrows slightly and looked at her intently, whilst Harker's
hand instinctively closed round the hilt of his Kukri. There
was a long pause. We all knew that the time when she could
speak was passing, but we felt that it was useless to say
anything.

Suddenly she sat up, and as she opened her eyes said
sweetly, "Would none of you like a cup of tea? You must all
be so tired!"

We could only make her happy, and so acqueisced. She
bustled off to get tea. When she had gone Van Helsing said,
"You see, my friends. He is close to land. He has left his
earth chest. But he has yet to get on shore. In the night
he may lie hidden somewhere, but if he be not carried on
shore, or if the ship do not touch it, he cannot achieve the
land. In such case he can, if it be in the night, change his
form and jump or fly on shore, then, unless he be carried he
cannot escape. And if he be carried, then the customs men
may discover what the box contain. Thus, in fine, if he
escape not on shore tonight, or before dawn, there will be
the whole day lost to him. We may then arrive in time. For
if he escape not at night we shall come on him in daytime,
boxed up and at our mercy. For he dare not be his true self,
awake and visible, lest he be discovered."

There was no more to be said, so we waited in patience
until the dawn, at which time we might learn more from Mrs.
Harker.

Early this morning we listened, with breathless anxiety,
for her response in her trance. The hypnotic stage was even
longer in coming than before, and when it came the time re-
maining until full sunrise was so short that we began to
despair. Van Helsing seemed to throw his whole soul into the
effort. At last, in obedience to his will she made reply.

"All is dark. I hear lapping water, level with me, and
some creaking as of wood on wood." She paused, and the red
sun shot up. We must wait till tonight.

And so it is that we are travelling towards Galatz in
an agony of expectation. We are due to arrive between two
and three in the morning. But already, at Bucharest, we
are three hours late, so we cannot possibly get in till well
after sunup. Thus we shall have two more hypnotic messages
from Mrs. Harker! Either or both may possibly throw more
light on what is happening.


Later.--Sunset has come and gone. Fortunately it came
at a time when there was no distraction. For had it occurred
whilst we were at a station, we might not have secured the
necessary calm and isolation. Mrs. Harker yielded to the
hypnotic influence even less readily than this morning. I
am in fear that her power of reading the Count's sensations
may die away, just when we want it most. It seems to me that
her imagination is beginning to work. Whilst she has been
in the trance hitherto she has confined herself to the simp-
lest of facts. If this goes on it may ultimately mislead us.
If I thought that the Count's power over her would die away
equally with her power of knowledge it would be a happy
thought. But I am afraid that it may not be so.

When she did speak, her words were enigmatical, "Some-
thing is going out. I can feel it pass me like a cold wind.
I can hear, far off, confused sounds, as of men talking in
strange tongues, fierce falling water, and the howling of
wolves." She stopped and a shudder ran through her, in-
creasing in intensity for a few seconds, till at the end,
she shook as though in a palsy. She said no more, even in
answer to the Professor's imperative questioning. When she
woke from the trance, she was cold, and exhausted, and lan-
guid, but her mind was all alert. She could not remember
anything, but asked what she had said. When she was told,
she pondered over it deeply for a long time and in silence.


30 October, 7 A.M.--We are near Galatz now, and I may
not have time to write later. Sunrise this morning was anx-
iously looked for by us all. Knowing of the increasing diff-
iculty of procuring the hypnotic trance, Van Helsing began
his passes earlier than usual. They produced no effect, how-
ever, until the regular time, when she yielded with a still
greater difficulty, only a minute before the sun rose. The
Professor lost no time in his questioning.

Her answer came with equal quickness, "All is dark. I
hear water swirling by, level with my ears, and the creaking
of wood on wood. Cattle low far off. There is another sound,
a queer one like. . ." She stopped and grew white, and
whiter still.

"Go on, go on! Speak, I command you!" said Van Helsing
in an agonized voice. At the same time there was despair in
his eyes, for the risen sun was reddening even Mrs. Harker's
pale face. She opened her eyes, and we all started as she
said, sweetly and seemingly with the utmost unconcern.

"Oh, Professor, why ask me to do what you know I can't?
I don't remember anything." Then, seeing the look of amaze-
ment on our faces, she said, turning from one to the other
with a troubled look, "What have I said? What have I done?
I know nothing, only that I was lying here, half asleep, and
heard you say `go on! speak, I command you!' It seemed so
funny to hear you order me about, as if I were a bad child!"

"Oh, Madam Mina," he said, sadly, "it is proof, if proof
be needed, of how I love and honor you, when a word for your
good, spoken more earnest than ever, can seem so strange be-
cause it is to order her whom I am proud to obey!"

The whistles are sounding. We are nearing Galatz. We are
on fire with anxiety and eagerness.

MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL